Slicing in Python is an easy way to
create sub lists from larger lists.
So we saw how easy it is
to access an item by index.
We can also ask for
a range at an index with splicing.
So let's say I had a string here.
If I got the value at 0,
that would just be the letter H.
I can ask for a slice of the string
by passing in the starting point,
followed by a colon, and
then the ending point.
So that's just going to return
everything from index 7 and onwards.
You can also do lopsided slicing.
So if this first value was not present,
that is a shortcut saying start at 0.
If we have a value on the left-hand side,
but not on the right-hand side.
That's a shortcut that says,
go all the way to the end of the string or
the end of the sequence.
So that's a little bit of shortcut
syntax that you might see.
If you quickly want to create
a full copy of a string or
a list, you can omit both the start and
the end.
And that will return just a full
copy from the beginning to the end.
You can also have negative indexing.
So if I wanted just the last character,
I could pass in
negative 1 and that says,
go back one from the end.
You can also do a little bit of
reversing here with negative indexing.
So I can say from negative
10 to negative 7,
and that will get the values from the 10th
index from last to
the 7th index from last.
If I switched the order of these, oops,
then you would not see anything at all.
Because that's asking for
a slice that doesn't exist.
You can also pass in a stride or
a step as well.
That will be a optional
third argument here.
I'm not going to cover it.
You generally won't see it too much
out there in code in the wild, but
in case you do you know what to look for.
There's another optional exercise
on the zip function that lets you
take two different lists and
combine them together to form some data
structures that might help you
translate into a dictionary if needed.
Some more advanced concept if that's
something that you find interesting,
I recommend going back and
checking that out.
But we're gonna talk
about working with files.